# International-Student-Education-Database

## Mission Statement:
This platform aims to assist international students as they pursue higher education in the United States. Our goal is to help international students find their ideal school by making the process much more efficient and organized. We do this by aggregating all the information about school and programs into one database. What makes this uniquely useful to international students is the comprehensive information of the requirements and considerations of an international students in one central and easily accessible resource.

## Summary of Problem:
Every year hundreds of thousands of international students are newly enrolled in higher education here in the US. This includes undergraduate students, graduate students, and students seeking non-degree studies. Each year many more international students across the world begin the arduous process of searching for the right programs to apply for, often without much guidance. As tuition continues to skyrocket in the US it is important for all students to find suitable, high-quality programs. This search and application process is particularly cumbersome for the international student.

There are numerous college search engines available, some behind a paywall, others free to all users. These search engines provide general information on schools such as programs available, tuition, undergraduate enrollment rates, acceptance rates, gpa and test requirements, important dates, and rankings. While all this information is useful to the international student most of these sites neglect valuable information. As a result, a student must navigate each potential college’s website to find information on academic requirements, education system requirements, language requirement, as well as financial information. One could imagine how laborious this can be first having to collect all this information before even considering applying. The chances that a student overlooks a fitting school is higher than for a domestic student.

Another limitation of the existing search engines is that while it is beneficial to have acceptance rates, and demographics of admitted students, these statistics are not useful for the international student. Because there is a limit to the number of international students admitted per year, an unknown number that varies from school to school, these acceptance rates do not provide any useful insight for the international student. The lack of this type of information makes it more challenging for a student to gage their chances of being enrolled and therefore decide whether they should expend time, energy, and money applying.

Having a centralized database allows for an efficient search and match process for students. This makes it possible to find more ideal matches, decreases the chance of overlooking an appropriate school and make it easier to evaluate all feasible options. Not only is tuition expensive, but the application fees can also add up. This database has the potential to help students allocate their time and money correctly.


